New ccloud getting started topic (#13323)
cockroachdb/docs: cockroachcloud/ccloud-get-started.md

---
title: Get Started with the ccloud CLI

> summary: The ccloud CLI is used to create, manage, and connect to CockroachDB Cloud clusters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: Use the ccloud CLI to create, manage, and connect to CockroachDB Cloud clusters
```

toc: true
docs_area: manage
---

> The `ccloud` tool is a command line interface (CLI) tool that allows you to create, manage, and connect to CockroachDB Cloud clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ccloud` tool is a command-line interface (CLI) tool that allows you to create, manage, and connect to CockroachDB Cloud clusters.
```

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
curl https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/ccloud_linux-amd64-latest.tar.gz | tar -xJ && cp -i dist/linux-amd64/ccloud /usr/local/bin/
~~~

</section>
<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="windows">
Download and extract the `ccloud` binary and add it to your `PATH`.

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
$ErrorActionPreference = "Stop"; [Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol = [Net.SecurityProtocolType]::Tls12; $ProgressPreference = 'SilentlyContinue'; $null = New-Item -Type Directory -Force $env:appdata/ccloud; Invoke-WebRequest -Uri https://binaries.cockroachdb.com/ccloud-windows-amd64-0.1.1.zip -OutFile ccloud.zip; Expand-Archive -Force -Path ccloud.zip; Copy-Item -Force dist/windows-amd64/ccloud.exe -Destination $env:appdata/ccloud; $Env:PATH += ";$env:appdata/ccloud"; # We recommend adding ";$env:appdata/ccloud" to the Path variable for your system environment. See https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/about/about_environment_variables#saving-changes-to-environment-variables for more information.
~~~
</section>

> ## Using `ccloud quickstart`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Use `ccloud quickstart`
```

The `ccloud quickstart` command guides you through logging in to CockroachDB Cloud, creating a new {{ site.data.products.serverless }} with a $0 spend limit, and connecting to the new cluster. Run `ccloud quickstart` and follow the instructions:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
ccloud quickstart
~~~

## Log in to CockroachDB Cloud using `ccloud`

> 1. Run the `ccloud auth login` command and hit **Enter** to open a browser window.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run the `ccloud auth login` command and hit **Enter** to open a browser window:
```

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    ccloud auth login
    ~~~

    This will take you to the CockroachDB Cloud login page.

1. Enter your username and password if you already have a CockroachDB Cloud account, then click **Continue**.

    If you do not have a CockroachDB Cloud account, click **Sign up with GitHub** or **Sign up** to register.

1. Close the browser window and return to your terminal.

## Create a new cluster using `ccloud`

There are two ways to create clusters using `ccloud`: `ccloud quickstart create` and `ccloud cluster create`.

The `ccloud quickstart create` command interactively guides you through creating and connecting to a new {{ site.data.products.serverless }} cluster.

> The `ccloud cluster create` command creates new {{ site.data.products.serverless }} and {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} CockroachDB clusters in your organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ccloud cluster create` command creates a new {{ site.data.products.serverless }} or {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} CockroachDB cluster in your organization.
```

<div class="filters clearfix">
    <button class="filter-button page-level" data-scope="serverless">{{ site.data.products.serverless }}<strong></strong></button>
    <button class="filter-button page-level" data-scope="dedicated"><strong>{{ site.data.products.dedicated }}</strong></button>
</div>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="serverless">

Use the `ccloud cluster create` command to create a new {{ site.data.products.serverless }} cluster.

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
ccloud cluster create
~~~

This command creates a {{ site.data.products.serverless }} cluster in the default cloud infrastructure provider (GCP) and the closest region for that provider. It will generate a cluster name.

~~~
∙∙∙ Creating cluster...
Success! Created cluster
  name: dim-dog
  id: ec5e50eb-67dd-4d25-93b0-91ee7ece778d
~~~

> The `id` in the output is the cluster ID. The `name` is used in other `ccloud` commands to identify the cluster on which the `ccloud` command operates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `id` in the output is the cluster ID. You use the `name` in other `ccloud` commands to identify the cluster on which the `ccloud` command operates.
```

> The cluster name, cloud infrastructure provider, region, and spend limit can be set as command options. The following command is equivalent to the previous command that uses the default values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can set the cluster name, cloud infrastructure provider, region, and spend limit as command options. The following command is equivalent to the previous command that uses the default values.
```

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
ccloud cluster create serverless dim-dog us-central1 --cloud GCP --spend-limit 0
~~~
</section>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="dedicated">

Use the `ccloud cluster create` command to create a new {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster.

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
ccloud cluster create dedicated
~~~

This command creates a 1 node {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster with 2 virtual CPUs (vCPUs) and 15 GiB of storage in the default cloud infrastructure provider (GCP) and the closest region for that provider. It will generate a cluster name. The CockroachDB version will be the latest stable version.

> The cluster name, cloud infrastructure provider, region, number of nodes, and storage can be set as command options. The following command is equivalent to the previous command that uses the default values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can set the cluster name, cloud infrastructure provider, region, and spend limit as command options. The following command is equivalent to the previous command that uses the default values.
```

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
ccloud cluster create dedicated dim-dog us-central1:2 us-west2:1 --cloud GCP --vcpus 2 --storage-gib 15
~~~
</section>

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
If you set a maximum spend limit greater than $0 on a {{ site.data.products.serverless }} cluster, or create a {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster, you must [add a credit card](billing-management.html) to your organization.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="dedicated">

## Create and manage IP allowlists using `ccloud cluster networking allowlist`

Use the `ccloud cluster networking allowlist create` command to create an [IP allowlist](network-authorization.html#ip-allowlisting), which allows incoming network connections from the specified network IP range. Use the `--sql` flag to allow incoming CockroachDB SQL shell connections from the specified network. Use the `--ui` flag to allow access to the DB Console from the specified network.

> The IP range must be in [Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR) format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Classless_Inter-Domain_Routing). For more information on CIDR, see Digital Ocean's [Understanding IP Addresses, Subnets, and CIDR Notation for Networking](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/understanding-ip-addresses-subnets-and-cidr-notation-for-networking#cidr-notation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The IP range must be in [Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR) format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Classless_Inter-Domain_Routing). For more information on CIDR, see [Understanding IP Addresses, Subnets, and CIDR Notation for Networking](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/understanding-ip-addresses-subnets-and-cidr-notation-for-networking#cidr-notation).
```

For example, to allow incoming connections from a single IP address, 1.1.1.1, to your cluster, including the CockroachDB SQL shell and DB Console, use the following command:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
ccloud cluster networking allowlist create dim-dog 1.1.1.1/32 --sql --ui
~~~

~~~

> ∙∙∙ Creating IP allowlist entry...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
∙∙∙ Creating IP allowlist entry ...
```

Reviewer: Not sure about this, but I would have thought the ellipsis would be symmetric.

Author: That's how it is in the output of the tool.

Success! Created IP allowlist entry for
 network: 1.1.1.1/32
 cluster: 041d4c6b-69b9-4121-9c5a-8dd6ffd6b73d
~~~

Use the `ccloud cluster networking allowlist list` command to list the IP allowlists for your cluster:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
ccloud cluster networking allowlist list dim-dog
~~~

~~~

> ∙●∙ Retrieving cluster allowlist...

Reviewer: Weird ellipsis here too.

Author: They're part of the output of the command. When you run it, they animate to show status.

NETWORK         NAME  UI  SQL
1.1.1.1/32            ✔   ✔
~~~

> To modify an allowlist entry, use the `ccloud cluster networking allowlist update`. The following command adds a descriptive name to the previously created entry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To modify an allowlist entry, use the `ccloud cluster networking allowlist update` command. The following command adds a descriptive name to the previously created entry.
```

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
ccloud cluster networking allowlist update dim-dog 1.1.1.1/32 --name home
~~~

~~~

> ∙∙● Updating IP allowlist entry...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
∙∙. Updating IP allowlist entry...
```

Success! Updated IP allowlist entry for
 network: 1.1.1.1/32
 cluster: 041d4c6b-69b9-4121-9c5a-8dd6ffd6b73d
~~~

Rerunning the `allowlist list` command shows the updated entry:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
ccloud cluster networking allowlist list dim-dog
~~~

~~~

> ∙∙∙ Retrieving cluster allowlist...

Reviewer: The leading ellipsis doesn't look right. Same as line 196.

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
ccloud cluster list
~~~

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="serverless">
~~~
∙∙∙ Retrieving clusters...
NAME                 ID                                    PLAN TYPE        CREATED AT                            STATE                   CLOUD               VERSION
dim-dog              041d4c6b-69b9-4121-9c5a-8dd6ffd6b73d  PLAN_SERVERLESS  2022-03-20 13:47:40.529531 +0000 UTC  CLUSTER_STATE_CREATED   CLOUD_PROVIDER_GCP  v21.2.4
...
~~~
</section>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="dedicated">
~~~
∙∙∙ Retrieving clusters...
NAME      ID                                    PLAN TYPE        CREATED AT                            STATE                   CLOUD               VERSION
dim-dog   041d4c6b-69b9-4121-9c5a-8dd6ffd6b73d  PLAN_DEDICATED   2022-03-22 21:07:35.7177 +0000 UTC    CLUSTER_STATE_CREATING  CLOUD_PROVIDER_GCP  v21.2.4
...
~~~
</section>

> ## Get information about your cluster using `ccloud cluster info`

Reviewer: Is there a reason why you include the command in the heading here and below and not in previous headings?

Use the `ccloud cluster info` command with the cluster name as the parameter to show detailed information about your cluster. Find the **Name** column in the output of `ccloud cluster list` to find the name of the cluster.

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
ccloud cluster info dim-dog
~~~

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="serverless">
~~~

> ∙∙∙ Retrieving cluster...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
∙∙∙ Retrieving cluster ...
```

~~~

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="serverless">

~~~
Connection parameters
 Database:  defaultdb
 Host:      free-tier7.gcp-us-central1.crdb.io
 Options:   --cluster=dim-dog-1567
 Port:      26257
~~~

</section>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="dedicated">

~~~
∙∙∙ Retrieving cluster info...
Connection parameters
 Database:  defaultdb
 Host:      dim-dog-5bct.gcp-us-east4.crdb.io
 Port:      26257
~~~

</section>

## Create a SQL user using `ccloud cluster user create`

Use the `ccloud cluster user create` command to create a new SQL user by passing in the username and the cluster name.

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
ccloud cluster user create maxroach dim-dog
~~~

{% comment %}
~~~
Password: ****************
∙∙∙ Creating SQL user...
~~~
{% endcomment %}

## Delete a cluster using `ccloud cluster delete`

Use the `ccloud cluster delete` command to delete the specified cluster using the cluster name.

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
ccloud cluster delete dim-dog
~~~

~~~
∙∙∙ Deleting cluster...
Success! Deleted cluster
 id: 041d4c6b-69b9-4121-9c5a-8dd6ffd6b73d
~~~

> {{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}

Reviewer: Normally we use Warning for security issues and data loss. Maybe this could be a note instead?
